Hello everyone, and welcome to
the Advanced Sets lecture.
So in this lecture, we'll be learning about
lots of different methods for sets
that you may not have seen yet.
And we'll start by going over the basic ones
you already know and then dive a little deeper.
So as always, there's a jupyter notebook that has
everything we're gonna go over
as well as many examples.
So you can go ahead and check that out.
So let's go ahead and look at Advanced Sets first.
So in this lecture,
we'll start with some of the basics.
So we'll start with building our sets, and then
how do we add things to a set.
Well we just use the add method.
So here I'm gonna add one to my sets.
And I'll add two.
And remember, a set won't take any duplicate items.
It only presents them one, that's what makes it a set.
So if I were to try to add two again.
I only get one, two.
So we know we can add with add.
So we can also clear or remove all the elements
from a set using the clear method.
And that looks like this.
So if I check my set, now it's empty.
So, another interesting method
that you may not have seen yet is copy,
which returns a copy of the set.
So to show you that example.
Here I have a set one, two, three.
And I'm going to set a variable called SC
to a copy of that.
And now SC is one, two, three.
So it is a copy, so changes to the original
won't affect the copy.
So if I say s.add
Here is my original.
There's the copy.
Okay.
So,
what about a couple of more methods
that you haven't seen yet
such as the difference method.
So difference method is a super useful method,
and it returns the difference of two or more sets.
So the syntax looks like this.
You provide your set
called difference and then the set
you wanna check the difference between.
So the only difference between S and SC,
is this four element.
So it returns the elements that are different.
And so another really interested related method
is difference update,
and what difference update does
is the method returns set one after removing elements
from set two if you have this sort of format here.
So,
I just copy and pasted this from the jupyter notebook.
So the syntax looks like this.
You have set one,
you call for the difference underscore update with set2.
And the method returns set1
after removing all the elements
that were found in set2.
So I'll show you an example of what this looks like.
I'll create a new set, s1.
Create another new set, s2.
This one'll have one, four, five.
And now, if I call s1 difference update
with s2.
And then I'm gonna call s1 again.
So note what I get back, two, three.
So the matching elements between s1 and s2
was the one element here, number one.
And what difference_update did
was it returned the first set
after removing all the elements found in the second one.
In which case, it would've been one,
so you get back two, three.
Another interesting method is the discard method.
And it removes an element from a set
if it's a member.
So if the element's not a member it doesn't do anything.
So, I'll show you what I mean by that.
So, let's go ahead and check out this set.
We have S, which is one, two, three, four,
and I can discard
let's say I discard the two element.
And if it's in the set, it'll get rid of it.
If it's not in the set, say 12, nothing happens.
So you don't get an error if it's not in the set,
something to keep in mind.
Okay.
Now let's go ahead and learn about
the intersection method,
another very useful method for sets.
And what it does, it returns the intersection
of two or more sets as a new set.
And the intersection is just the elements
that are common to all the sets.
So let's go ahead and redefine s1 and s2.
So one, two, three, four,
and then s2 is gonna be equal to one, whoops
one, two, four.
Okay.
And what I'm gonna do is check
for the intersection of the two.
And there's an intersection update method
which we'll learn about in just a second.
So, s1 and s2, the elements that are common
to both of the sets is one and two.
Alright.
So, intersection update will update a set
with the intersection of itself and another.
So if I try this method on s1.
Notice s1 is one, two, three.
But if I say s1 intersection update with s2,
it will actually update set one
to be equal to the intersection of set one with s2.
So s1 was one, two, three,
and now it's gonna be with intersection update,
equal to, whoops, that intersection.
So now if I check s1 it's one, two.
So let me just break that down
cause I know it's a lot of ones and twos that I'm saying.
So originally, set one was the numbers one, two, three,
and set two was the numbers one, two, four.
So the intersection, or the elements
that are in common between them
are the numbers one and two,
that's their intersection.
And with intersection update
it basically makes the first set
equal to that intersection.
So if I check it again here after the update,
I just get one, two back.
Okay.
So, now we're gonna check a method called
isdisjoint.
So I'm gonna create a few sets
to show you how it works.
So I'm gonna create three sets.
s1, so it's one, two.
I'll create s2, which is one, two, four.
And let's say s3 is equal to just five.
Okay.
So, this method was gonna return true
if the two sets have a null intersection.
So for instance, s1
is disjoint
s2.
Is going to return false.
Which makes sense because they did have an intersection.
They have one, the elements number one and number two
are in common between the first two sets.
Now, for instance, s1, and s3 here,
don't have any things in common.
So they don't have an intersection
which means they have a null intersection.
So if I was to say s1 isdisjoint with s3,
I should get true,
because they do have a null intersection.
Another interesting method is is subset.
And the method reports whether another set
contains this set.
So if I look at what s1 equals, it's one, two.
If I look at what s2 equals, it's one, two, four.
So you notice s1 is a subset of s2,
and we can check that by asking
is subset with the is subset method
and this will return true.
And then basically the reverse of that
is is superset.
So the method reports whether the set
contains another set.
So I can reverse this and say is s2
is superset of s1.
And that's also true,
so they're just the inverse of each other.
Alright.
Now we're gonna learn about a method
called symmetric difference.
And there is also a symmetric update
to go along with it.
So, symmetric difference will return the,
symmetric difference of two sets,
and what that is it's all the elements
that are exactly in one of the sets.
So you can think of this as basically
the opposite of the intersection.
So if we have s1 that's one, two,
and we have s2 that's one, two, four,
then the elements that are only in one of the sets
is that four element, right.
So I can check for the symmetric difference.
And that will return four,
since that's the element that's in exactly one of the sets.
Okay.
And then there's also a
update to go along with that as well.
If you wanted to change s1
into just the symmetric difference or four.
Movin' along, I will now go over union.
So, the union method
returns the union of two sets.
And that's all elements that are in either set.
And that will be here in this case, one, two, four,
because one, two, and four are in either set.
Okay.
And last but not least
we'll go over the update method.
And it updates a set with the union of itself and others.
So that means if I said s1.update
s2.
If we check s1 it's now the exact same result
as if we asked the union on itself
and another one, s2.
Okay, so you should have an at least now
a complete awareness of all the methods available to you
for a set object type.
I personally think the data structure
is under-utilized by beginners.
So, try to keep it mind
when you're trying to do comparisons
or looking for unique values.
The data structure itself is extremely useful,
and let's just take a brief overview
of everything we learned as far as methods.
So, we know about the add method
which adds elements to a set.
The clear method which removes all elements from a set.
The copy method returns the copy of a set.
The difference returns the difference
of two or more sets, has that syntax.
Remember there's a lot of update methods
which will change the first set in that method.
The discard which removes an element from a set
if it's a member.
If the element's not a member it doesn't do anything,
so it won't throw up an error.
Intersection returns the intersection
of two or more sets, which is just the elements
that are in common to all of the sets.
Also has an update method.
Isdisjoint returns true if they have a null intersection,
so they don't share any elements.
Issubset reports whether another set contains that set.
Issuperset, the inverse of that.
Symmetric difference will return all elements
that are in exactly only one of the sets.
And then you can update it as well.
Union returns the union of two sets,
with all elements that are in either set.
And then update will update a set
with the union of itself and whatever others
you pass in as arguments.
Okay.
So, that's it for the advanced sets lecture.
Thank you, and good job.
I'll see you at the next lecture.